# ScheduleGen
Ever need to effectively split your working hours into sections to divide your time and attention amongst multiple stuff?<br />
This module generates a schedule between the given range of timings with hihgly customisable options.<br />
Key in the different periods of time and give each its name, the frequency of occurrence, the bottom and upper limit of the duration of each period.<br />
It also accepts pre-defined periods with custom timings, from now on referenced as SetInPlace periods.

## Detailed behaviours:
It merges adjacent periods via the `.__merge()` method. This results in some periods being longer than the upper limit.<br />
<br />
Bottom and upper time limits are used to enforce a maximum time limit. It is generated by taking a random number between the bottom and upper limit and then rounding it down to the closest multiple of 5. I.e if bottom time limit is 30 and upper time limit is 50, the maximum time for that period instance will be a random number that is a multiple of 5 within 30 and 50.<br />
<br />
Time limits have a lower precedence than amount of time each periods have. If the total duration for a period has reached, it will immediately push it into the schedule. The total duration for a period is determined by the ratio of its frequency to the total frequency, exclusive of SetInPlace periods.<br />
<br />
If the `.Seed` property of the ParamObject is `-1` it will get a random seed between the range of 0 - 1, to 3 decimal places.<br />
<br />
The frequency value is the ratio of the time it will get when shared amongst the rest under `.Period` property. It takes the remaining time there is after accounting for SetInPlace periods, and divide them equally, giving each period the right amount of share. So if `PeriodA` has a frequency of 2 and `PeriodB` has a frequeny of 1, the total duration of PeriodA will be around 2 times more than PeriodB. Of course the number it is greater by may sometimes not be the exact same (sometimes 1.95 in this case, depending of the SetInPlace periods) but it will be close enough to be not noticeable. Lastly, frequency can be a fraction, i.e `0.5`

## API:
### ParamObject [Class]

#### Properties:

- `.Seed`
    - Default: `-1`.
    - The seed for random generation, put in the same seed and same parameters, you will get back the same schedule.
    - A value of `-1` will let the seed be random.
- `.Start`
    - Default: `"08:00"`.
    - The start time for the schedule.
- `.End`
    - Default: `"18:00"`.
	- The end time for the schedule.
- `.Periods`
    - Default: `{"ProjectA": [1, 50, 50], "ProjectB": [2, 25, 25]}`.
    - Schematic: `"PeriodName": [Frequency, BottomTimeLimit, UpperTimeLimit]`.
    - Store the data for each period to be added.
    - Works exclusively of `.SetInPlace`.
        - Even if `.SetInPlace` contains a period with the same name, it will exclude it when calculating the total period time.
#### Description:
Stores parameters for generation.<br />
Used by [Schedule]().
#### Construction:
Parameters: None

#### Methods:
- `AddPeriod`<br />
Adds a period into `.Periods`.
  - Parameters:
    - PeriodName: str | Default: None
	- Frequency: int/float | Default: None
	- BottomTimeLimit: int | Default: None
	- UpperTimeLimit: int | Default: None
- `RemovePeriod`
Remove the period from `.Periods`.
  - Parameters:
    - PeriodName: str | Default: None
- `AddSetInPlace`
Adds a period to `.SetInPlace`
  - Parameters:
    - PeriodName: str | Default: None
    - Start_timing: str | Default: None
    - End_timing: str | Default: None
- `RemoveSetInPlace`
Removes a period in `.SetInPlace`
  - Parameters:
    - PeriodName: str | Default: None
- `Purge`
Removes all instances of the period, within both `.Periods` and `.SetInPlace`
  - Parameters:
    - PeriodName: str | Default: None
- `Clean`
Removes all periods
  - Parameters: None


### Schedule [Class]
#### Properties:
- `.seed`
    - Stores the seed used to generate the schedule.
- `.period`
    - Stores the periods.
    - Used for read and writing into files.
#### Description:
Main class of this module.<br />
Used to generate the schedule.
#### Construction:
Parameters:
  - [ParamObject]()

#### Methods:
- `write_json`
Writes the schedule's content into a `.json` file.
  - Parameters:
    - Filename: str | Default: None | `.json` file to write the contents to
- `write`
Writes the string representation of the object into a `.txt` file.
  - Parameters:
    - Filename: str | Default: None | `.txt` file to write the contents to


## Code sample:
```py
import ScheduleGen

paramobj = ScheduleGen.ParamObject()
paramobj.Clean()

paramobj.Start = "10:00"
paramobj.End = "22:00"

paramobj.AddPeriod("Game", 2, 20, 60)
paramobj.AddPeriod("Code", 3, 40, 60)
paramobj.AddPeriod("Touch grass", 0.1, 2, 10)

paramobj.AddSetInPlace("Lunch", "13:00", "14:00")
paramobj.AddSetInPlace("Dinner", "17:30", "19:00")

schedule = ScheduleGen.Schedule(paramobj)
schedule.rwrite("output.txt")
schedule.write_json("output.json")
print(schedule)
```
### Output:
```
 10:00 - 22:00       Seed: 0.619
 10:00 | Code            | 47min
-------|-----------------|------
 10:47 | Touch grass     | 3min
-------|-----------------|-----
 10:50 | Game            | 24min
-------|-----------------|------
 11:14 | Code            | 40min
-------|-----------------|------
 11:54 | Game            | 21min
-------|-----------------|------
 12:15 | Code            | 45min
-------|-----------------|------
 13:00 | Lunch           | 1hr
-------|-----------------|----
 14:00 | Game            | 26min
-------|-----------------|------
 14:26 | Code            | 1hr 40min
-------|-----------------|----------
 16:06 | Touch grass     | 5min
-------|-----------------|-----
 16:11 | Game            | 36min
-------|-----------------|------
 16:47 | Touch grass     | 4min
-------|-----------------|-----
 16:51 | Code            | 39min
-------|-----------------|------
 17:30 | Dinner          | 1hr 30min
-------|-----------------|----------
 19:00 | Game            | 27min
-------|-----------------|------
 19:27 | Code            | 1hr 5min
-------|-----------------|---------
 20:32 | Game            | 1hr 17min
-------|-----------------|----------
```